INSTRUCTIONS
Panoeconomicus is an economic quarterly with a general orientation. We publish original scientific papers, scientific reviews, preliminary reports, conference papers, professional papers and
book reviews. Only original papers not previously published or simultaneously submitted for
publishing elsewhere, should be submitted. Submitted papers need to be prepared according to
the Panoeconomicus instructions for authors.
Authors should adhere strictly to the author instructions for submission. Papers that do
not adhere to the instructions will not enter the reviewing process.
The authors should state the funding source for the research presented in the paper in a footnote on the first page.
Papers must be submitted in Microsoft Word format, using Times New Roman font (size 10,5
regular), in Latin alphabet, normal character spacing and single paragraph spacing (before: 0
pt, after: 0 pt, line spacing: single). Page setup:
- Paper size: C5 (16 cm x 23 cm).
- Margins: top 2 cm; bottom 1,5 cm; left 1,65 cm; right 1,65 cm.
- Indentation: left 0 cm, right 0 cm, special: first line, 1 cm.
- Alignment: justified.
Paper title and author(s). Title should be as concise as possible. Author’s name and institution
should follow the title. Behind the name of the author(s), a footnote should be inserted containing e-mail address(es) of the author(s), as well as an identification (by an asterisk) for the corresponding author. The papers should be submitted by a maximum of three authors for the
current issues and four authors for the special issues of the journal.
Summary. Summary, with the length of 50-150 words, should be at the beginning of the paper.
At the end of the summary, key words should be included (up to five key words). At least one
classification code to the Classification System for the Journal Articles, as used by the Journal
of Economic Literature (JEL), should be included.
Reference to individuals in the text should include the first name, middle initial, and last
name on first reference. Subsequent references should include last name only. Do NOT use
titles such as Mister, Doctor, Professor, etc. For example: Alan S. Blinder (2006) [first reference], Blinder (2006) [subsequently].
Organizations or governmental agencies in the text. On first references use the full name
followed by the abbreviation in parentheses. Subsequent references should use abbreviation
only. For example: Social Science Research Council (SSRC) [first reference], SSRC [subsequently].
Reference to articles and books in the text. Give full name (first name, middle initial, and last
name) of author(s) and year of publication in the first citation, with page number(s) where appropriate. For example: Glenn Firebaugh (1999) [first reference]; Firebaugh (1999) [subsequently]; Andrea Boltho and Gianni Toniolo (1999) [first reference], Boltho and Toniolo (1999)
[subsequently]; Albert Berry, François Bourguignon, and Christian Morrisson (1983) [first reference], Berry, Bourguignon, and Morrisson (1983) [subsequently]. When more than one work by
the same author is cited, give the last name of author and year of publication in parentheses for
each subsequent citation. When listing a string of references within the text, arrange first in
chronological order, then alphabetically within years. If there are four or more authors, refer to
the first author, followed by et al. and the year; for example: Stefan Fölster et al. (1998). If there
is more than one publication referred to in the same year by the author(s), use the year and a,
b, etc. (example: 1997a, b). References to authors in the text must exactly match those in the
Reference section.

Quotations. Any quotation, regardless of its length, needs to be followed by reference including page number. For any quotation longer than 350 characters, an author must have written
approval by copy rights owner that needs to be enclosed.
Tables, charts, and pictures. Tables must be made in Word or a Word compatible format
(tables should be transferred into Word format). Same data may not be presented both in tables
and charts. Every table, chart, or picture should be appropriately numbered and named, e.g.:
Table 2 The Reliability of the Variables.
Figures, graphs, pictures, etc. will not be redrawn by the publisher; they should be high-quality
GRAYSCALE graphics (please, do NOT use colors): vector drawings with text converted to
curves (cdr, ai) or 300 dpi bitmaps (jpg, tiff). Please do not supply any graphics copied from a
website, as the resolution will be too low. Each picture, figure, graph, etc. should be in a separate file.
Tables, pictures, graphs, formulas, etc. should NOT extend beyond the margins. The maximum
space available for tables, figures, pictures, graphs, etc. is 12,5 cm (width) x 18 cm (height).
If an illustration from a printed source is used, written authorization from the copyright owner is
required. Sources should be placed below tables, charts, and pictures. References in the
source are used in the same way as in the text. If the tables, charts, and figures are author calculations, reviews or estimations, that should also be emphasized.
Statistics. The results of statistical tests need to be provided in the following form: F (1.9)
=25.35; p<.001 or similar. Lower number of conventional P levels should be stated (e.g.: .05,
.01, .001). Formulas should be created using Microsoft Equation Editor. The maximum width of
formulas should not exceed 12 cm.
References. Panoeconomicus use AEA rules for references. Reference section must be single-spaced, beginning on a new page following the text, giving full information. Use full names
of authors or editors using initials only if that is the usage of the particular author/editor. List all
author/editors up to/ including 10 names. Authors of articles and books and material without
specific authors or editors, such as government documents, bulletins, or newspapers, are to be
listed alphabetically. All references in the Reference section should be referenced (included) in
the text.
The DOI number should be added at the end of each paper used in reference, if available.
Please use the following link to look up this information:http://www.crossref.org/guestquery/
For example:
Arestis, Philip, Carolina Troncoso Baltar, and Daniela Magalhães Prates. 2016. “Brazilian
Economic Performance since the Emergence of the Great Recession: The Effects of Income
Distribution on Consumption.”Panoeconomicus, 63(2): 157-174.
http://dx.doi.org/10.2298/PAN1602157A
Appendix. In the appendix, only those descriptions of material that would be useful for readers
to understand, evaluate, or revise research should be provided.
Footnotes and abbreviations. Footnotes should be avoided. If necessary, references in the
footnotes should be used in the same way as in the text. Abbreviations should also be avoided,
except from exceptionally usual. The abbreviations stated in tables and pictures should be explained.
Reviews and publishing. All papers are anonymously reviewed by two anonymous reviewers.
On the basis of reviews, editorial staff make decision on paper publishing and inform author
about it.

Language editing. Authors whose first language is not English should ask a native speaker to
proofread the manuscript before the submission. There are also a number of services that provide mentoring, advice and copyediting to support authors unfamiliar with writing academic
research papers for publication in international journals. Authors are encouraged to make the
use of services such as SPi if necessary.

AEA PUBLICATIONS SAMPLE REFERENCES
Journal Articles
A) Published Articles
Author Last name, First name. Year. “Article Title.” Journal Title, Volume (Issue number if applicable): Page numbers.
Example: Acemoglu, Daron. 2002. “Technical Change, Inequality, and the Labor Market.”
Journal of Economic Literature, 40(1): 7–72.
In the case of two authors, only the first author’s name is inverted and a comma must be placed
before and after the first author’s first name or initials. Use “and” between the two author’(s’)
names.
Example: Baker, George, Robert Gibbons, and Kevin J. Murphy. 2002. “Relational Contracts and the Theory of the Firm.” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 117(1): 39–84.
B) Forthcoming Articles
Example: Bikhchandani, Sushil, and Joseph M. Ostroy. Forthcoming. “Ascending Price
Vickery Auctions.” Games and Economic Behavior.

Books
A) One Author
Author Last name, First name. Year. Title of Book. City of publication: Publisher.
Example: Friedman, Thomas L. 2005. The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First
Century. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
B) Two Authors
Example: Helpman, Elhanan, and Paul Krugman. 1985. Market Structure and Foreign Trade:
Increasing Returns, Imperfect Competition, and the International Economy. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
C) Chapter in a Book
Author Last name, First name. Year. “Chapter or Article Title.” In Book Title, followed by ed.
And editor’(s’) names if appropriate, and page number(s). City of publication: Publisher.
Example: Freeman, Richard B. 1993. “How Much Has Deunionization Contributed to the Rise
in Male Earnings Equality?” In Uneven Tide: Rising Income Inequality in America, ed. Sheldon
Danzinger and Peter Gottschalk, 133–63. New York: Russell Sage Foundation.

D) Reprint or Modern Editions
When emphasizing the earlier date: Author Last name, First name. Earlier printing date. Title.
City of publication: Publisher, Later date.

Example 1: Rawls, John. 1971. A Theory of Justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press, 1999.
When emphasizing the later date: Author Last name, First name. Title. City of publication: Publisher, (Orig. pub. date).
Example 2: Rawls, John. 1999. A Theory of Justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press, (Orig. pub. 1971).
E) Editions Other Than the First
When an edition other than the first is used or cited, the number or description of the edition
follows the title in the listing.
Example: Strunk, Willliam, Jr., and E. B. White. 2000. The Elements of Style. 4th ed. New
York: Allyn and Bacon.

Multivolume Works
Multivolume works include works such as encyclopedias, multivolume works published over
several years, and multivolume works published in a single year. Below are a few examples.
Example 1: Kohama, Hirohisa, ed. 2003. Asian Development Experience. Vol. 1, External
Factors in Asian Development. Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies.
Example 2: Kusuoka, Shigeo, and Akira Yamazaki, ed. 2006. Advances in Mathematical
Economics. Vol. 8. New York: Springer.
Example 3: Mokyr, Joel, ed. 2003. The Oxford Encyclopedia of Economic History. 5 Vols. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Unpublished Papers
A) Working Papers
Only papers appearing as part of an institutions’ working papers series should be classified as
working papers. These should always include a specific working paper number as assigned by
the institution. Author Last name, First name. Year. “Title.” Type of Working Paper (such as
institution, working series title) and number.
Example 1: Ausubel, Lawrence M. 1997. “An Efficient Ascending-Bid Auction for Multiple Objects.” University of Maryland Faculty Working Paper 97–06.

Example 2: Heidhues, Paul, and Botond Koszegi. 2005. “The Impact of Consumer Loss
Aversion on Pricing.” Centre for Economic Policy Research Discussion Paper 4849.
B) Lectures and Papers Presented at Meetings
Author Last name, First name. Year. “Title.” Paper presented at followed by meeting name,
place, and city where lecture/meeting took place.

Example 1: Romer, Christina D., and David H. Romer. 2006.“The Evolution of Economic Understanding and Postwar Stabilization Policy.” Paper presented at the Rethinking Stabilization
Policy Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas Symposium, Jackson Hole, WY.
Example 2: Goldin, Claudia. 2006. “The Quiet Revolution That Transformed Women’s Employment, Education, and Family.” Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Allied Social
Science Associations, Boston.
C) Unpublished Papers
When a paper has not been published but can be found on the Web (such as the author’s Web
site or the university Web site), use the following format: Author Last name, First name. Year.
“Title.” Web address. Please provide a URL that links to the full text of the article.
Example 1: Zeitzewitz, Eric. 2006. “How Widespread Was Late Trading in Mutual Funds.”
http:// facultygsb.stanford.edu/zitzewitz.
Example 2: Factiva. 2006. “Blogging and your Corporate Reputation: Part One -Listen to the
Conversation.”
http://www.factiva.com/collateral/download_brchr.asp?node=menuElem1506#white.
When a paper has not been published and does not appear on a Web site (such as the author’s
Web site or university Web site), use the following format: Author Last name, First name. Year.
“Title.” Unpublished.
Example 3: Acemoglu, Daron, Pol Atras, and Elhanan Helpman. 2006. “Contracts and
Technology Adoption.” Unpublished.
D) Theses and Dissertations
Author Last name, First name. Year. “Title.” PhD diss. University.
Example: Nash, John. 1950. “Non-Cooperative Games.” PhD diss. Princeton University.

Web Sites
This is to reference research done on a Web site. If you are looking to reference a specific article, document, lecture, speech, etc., see the sample reference for those types of documents.
Web Site Name. Year accessed. Publisher/Company. URL (access date).
Example 1: Factiva. 2006. Dow Jones Reuters Business Interactive LLC.
www.factiva.com (accessed June 5, 2006).
Example 2: Biography Resource Center. 2006. Thomas Gale.
http://www.galegroup.com/BiographyRC/ (accessed September 25, 2006).

Newspapers, Online Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, and Reference
Works
Because newspapers, online dictionaries, encyclopedias, and databases are continuously updated, they should be cited as a footnote in the text. It should NOT be included in the reference

list. The note should always include an access date along with the URL. If possible, use the
appropriate URL for the site entry rather than the general URL.
If you are citing the definition for "nepotism" in the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, use
http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/nepotism rather than http://www.m-w.coml.

Magazine Articles
A) Authored Articles
Author Last name, First name. Year. “Title.” Magazine. Month or date, page number(s).
Example: Belkin, Lisa. 2003. "The Opt-out Revolution." New York Times Magazine.
October 26, 23-32.
B) Nonauthored Articles
Magazine. Year. “Title,” Month or date, page numbers.
Example: The Economist. 1991. “The Ins and Outs of Outsourcing ," August 31, 54-56.

Online Magazine Articles
Author Last name, First name. Year. "Title." Magazine, date. URL.
Example: Becker, Gary S. 1993. "The Evidence against Blacks Doesn't Prove Bias."
Business Week, April 19. http://bwarchive.businessweek.com/index.jsp.

